Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on four loops in this lecture we're going to learn how to
perform some sort of code for every item in an iterable sequence using Skala.
Let's go ahead and jump to our text editor to get started.
All right so here I am at my text editor I'm going to go ahead and get started by copying and pasting
some of the notes for this lecture which is just a general format and the general format is going to
be the for keyword and then in print sees some sort of chosen item name.
And then this arrow symbol then iterable sequence whether that's a list or a range etcetera array and
then you're going to go ahead and do something in that code block.
Let me go ahead and show you some examples.
Some say for as a keyword and then in parentheses I will say item.
And let's go ahead and iterate through a list.
So I say this sort of Arrow this dash and then let's go in and create a list and we'll say one two three
here.
Then we have curly brackets and whatever you want to occur for every item in this list you go ahead
and run it here.
So let's say I just want to go in and say prints hello save that and let's go out and run this.
So I notice I should see Hello printed three times.
And if I want to actually work with these items in this list whatever these elements are I can actually
just put in that item as a keyword here and then I will go ahead and run this and I get one to three.
Now something to know is just like in many other languages.
Whatever you want this variable name to be you can go ahead and choose that.
So if you want this to be something like jelly.
And then we'll go ahead and reference GLT here.
This will work the exact same way.
So if I run this again whatever you want to call this yeah you're free to do so.
So you should keep that in mind and try to call it something that may be a week later you're looking
back your code you'll try to remember.
So for something like this a good thing may be numb for numbers since this list just contains integers
which you also want to avoid doing however is using a keyword such as ANC.
And hopefully if you're a text editor ID has syntax highlighting it will warn you that that's kind of
a reserved keyword.
So if we run this one more time notice we get one to three again.
All right so that's how you can iterate through a list.
Let me go ahead and show you how you can iterate through maybe an array.
You could go ahead and make something like a radar range and then say zero to five.
Save that and run it and this will again just work the exact same way.
And you can do sets as well.
But something to note about a set we say one two three here is that a set may not have a particular
order.
So as you add more and more this set it may not actually be in the order that it was placed into the
set.
So keep that in mind.
OK.
So that's really all you need to know as far as the basics of a for loop as a very simple line.
Let's go ahead and build it up with some flow control such as if else statements and do some more complicated
examples.
So we get a general idea of the format we're going to go ahead and say for and we'll save for now.
Now let's go ahead and just do an iterable here such as range 0 to 10 and then I'm going to say if the
numb 2 is equal to zero I'm going to go ahead and the line.
In this case I'm going to use this as formatting to say no is even and know what I'm doing here and
basically going throughout this range of numbers and checking if that no mod 2 is equal to zero.
That means it's an even number so I'm going to go ahead and use this print formatting with the Dollar
Sign here to actually print out that number else this number is odd.
So we'll go ahead and run another line here.
Another set of curly brackets and say Prince l n s double quotes now is odd closes double quotes and
let's go ahead and run this and see if it works out.
And here we go it looks like it's working fine in this case it's a little weird because zero 2 is equal
to zero so we can actually if you ignore that first one we are getting the results you expect.
One is on two is even three is odd for us even etc..
Let's go ahead and do one more example without number so we can get a little variety here.
I'm going to save our names is equal to list and I will say just put a couple of names here let's put
in John.
Just some shorter names.
Abe let's do Cindy.
Make sure that's double quotes there.
And then we're going to go putting cat or Catherine or something.
So that's going to be our list of names.
I'm going to go ahead and call that names then I'm going to say for name in names.
So notice how there's different in the singular in the plural there.
Just for reference I will say if and since these are strings I can call methods off of them so something
like starts with will say if it starts of A C I will go ahead and unclearly curly brackets for that
flow control say prints line.
And again I'm going to just do some print formatting here her string inter-relations say name starts
with C so nothing too crazy here.
We've seen this all before we're just adding these puzzle pieces together to build some more complicated
code snippets.
They go ahead and clear the Skala and run it again.
And it looks like we get what we expect out Cindy sort of a C and cat starts with C..
All right.
So that's really all you need to know about for loops and we expand some of these concepts to include
control flow statements with for loops.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture or we discuss functions.